1.all device files are stored in /dev directory
2. to see all partitions of hard drive type: fdisk -l
3. linux use ext1,ext2,ext3,etx4 file system(ext = extended)
4.Character and Block Devices
Something else to note about the naming of device files in the /dev directory is that the
first position contains either c or b. You can see this in Listing 101
at the start of most
of the entries, and it looks something like this:
crw1
root root 10,175 May 16 12:44 agpgart
These letters represent the two ways that devices transfer data in and out. The c stands
for character, and these devices are known, as you might expect, as character devices.
External devices that interact with the system by sending and receiving data character
by character, such as mice or keyboards, are character devices.
The b stands for the second type: block devices. They communicate in blocks of data
(multiple bytes at a time) and include devices like hard drives and DVD drives. These
devices require higherspeed
data throughput and therefore send and receive data in
blocks (many characters or bytes at a time). Once you know whether a device is a
character or block device, you can easily get more information about it, as you’ll see
next.

5.list Block Devices and Information with lsblk
type: lsblk (lsblk=list block)


6.Mounting Storage Devices Yourself
In some versions of Linux, you need to mount a drive manually in order to access its
content, so this is a skill worth learning. To mount a drive on the filesystem, use the
mount command. The mount point for the device should be an empty directory; if you
mount a device on a directory that has subdirectories and files, the mounted device will
cover the contents of the directory, making them invisible and unavailable. So, to
mount the new hard drive sdb1 at the /mnt directory, you would enter the following:
kali >mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt
That hard drive should then be available for access. If you want to mount the flash drive
sdc1 at the /media directory, you would enter this:

kali >mount /dev/sdc1 /media

The filesystems that are mounted on a system are kept in a file at /etc/fstab (short for
filesystem table), which is read by the system at every bootup



7.Unmounting with umount
If you’re coming from a Mac or Windows background, you’ve probably unmounted a
drive without knowing it. Before you remove a flash drive from your system, you “eject”
it to keep from causing damage to the files stored on the device. Eject is just another
word for unmount.
Similar to the mount command, you can unmount a second hard drive by entering the
umount command followed by the file entry of the device in the /dev directory, such as
/dev/sdb. Note that the command is not spelled unmount but rather umount (no n).

kali >umount /dev/sdb1

You cannot unmount a device that is busy, so if the system is reading or writing to the
device, you will just receive an error.


8.Getting information on disks and mounted devices with df
type: df (disk free) 
it give you the basic info about the disk 
-to check for particular disk just give the path of disk
like : df  /dev/sda1

9. checking for errors
type: fsck (fsck=filesystem check)
****alert
make sure you unmount the device before checking errors using 'umount' command
type: umount devicepth

after umount you can check error and fix errors
type : fsck -p /dev/sbd1  (p=problem errors thaN SOLVE)


